Ukraine's Parliament has passed a new
law making it easier to call up new
recruits it requires all men between 18
and 60 years old to carry documents
showing that they have registered with
the military new troops are desperately
needed a general told lawmakers ahead of
the vote that Ukrainian soldiers are
outnumbered 10 to one in places the
parliamentarians also dropped a clause
from the law placing time limits on
service earlier versions had allowed for
demobilization after 3 years and that
omission is a bitter blow for battle
weary troops some of whom have been
fighting since the War
Began we're at a training ground near
keev in just a few weeks time these
soldiers will head back to the front
lines where they've been since Russia
invaded two years
ago last year I got five days off lots
of guys in my unit have families who've
gone abroad some have even become
grandfathers and have never met their
grandkids perhaps they never
will this isn't Alexander's first
experience of War he served in the Army
after 2014 when Ukraine was fighting
Russian back separatists in donbass he
left in 2020 to start a business and a
family his wife and his three-year-old
daughter have barely seen him since he
went back to his unit after the
fullscale
invasion if you were told you'd be
serving until 2025 you'd know that if
you survive you'd be going home if
people can't make plans they get
depressed and then they start making
mistakes Alex Ander tells us it's not a
question of wanting to leave straight
away it's about feeling some kind of
control being able to plan your life
that he's convinced would boost morale
demobilization after 18 months on the
front lines or a total of 36 month
service were both discussed when this
law made its way through Parliament it
was Central to the rationale for the new
law calling up new soldiers to give
veterans a chance to recover in the end
any mention of demobilization was
dropped with little prior warning only
returning prisoners of War get an
exception Russia is preparing to
mobilize at least 300,000 men over the
next 6 weeks that's in addition to
150,000 doing their military service
there could be another wave of
mobilization in the
autumn in this situation demobilizing
experienced soldiers would be suicidal
these soldiers wives and mothers
protesting near Parliament don't expect
their husbands to come home right away
what they want is
Clarity our husbands are being punished
for their patriotism for volunteering to
fight when the war started my husband
told me I can't just sit around I have
to serve someone needs to defend this
country if I don't go who will my
husband's exhausted is only 29 and he's
already gone
gray for now no one in Ukraine's
military or politics wants to make
promises to these families that they
know they'll most likely have to
break what they can do is make sure it's
not just those who volunteered in the
early days of the war that are left
defending Ukraine's front
lines let's get more on this from Mike
Martin a war studies fellow at King's
College London and a military expert
Mike good to see you again can you tell
us why Ukraine has made this change to
its mobilization law now at this
stage well I think it's two things one
is is you know the war has been going on
a long time and it's not obviously the
number of killed but there's probably
three times as many injured and so
they're running out of soldiers and at
the same time we can see that Russia is
mobilizing large number of troops
continually you know the Russian
population is probably three times the
Ukrainian population so there are much
bigger reserves on the Russian side and
what this law is doing is enabling
Ukraine to to basically dig in for the
long term it enables it to know that it
will have a pipeline of soldiers for the
next few years so that it can can
continue to fight so tell us a little
bit more about what exactly has changed
here from previous uh policies on the
issue what what are some of the key
provisions of this new Ukrainian
mobilization
law yeah so it was pretty controversial
it's pretty difficult to get it through
the Ukrainian Parliament but essentially
there are two or three key changes one
is to lower the age at which people are
conscripted from 27 to 25 you know
previously they were trying to protect
the Youth of Ukraine and obviously
that's less protected
now they are also after three years you
you are no longer demobilized there was
discussion about whether that should be
brought in so effectively when people
get conscripted now you're in
indefinitely until the war ends um with
a few exceptions and then uh they are
also slightly loosening the criteria for
which people can be called up so medical
exemptions and previously anyone with
any criminal record would be Exempted
but the serious crimes still Exempted
but you know if you get caught for theft
or something you you'll be going into
the military that doesn't exempt you
from military service and what this does
is this just boosts the number of troops
that they can call upon I understand
that some of these measures were were
quite controversial um how effective do
you think that this law will be in
addressing Ukraine's Manpower uh
capabilities on the
battlefield it it will work because
coupled with all of those criteria
loosening that I just described to you
there's greater enforcement so people
have to carry their papers now when they
leave the country or whether they get
their driving license renewed um people
will be checked much more often as to
their military registration status and
so there is a much greater level of
enforcement going on in the first year
of the war I think
20,000
ukrainians fled illegally to escape
conscription and they're trying to stop
that drain going forward with some of
the tightening measures that they put in
place Russia has claimed capture of the
Ukrainian Village of Pera in the Donetsk
region the Russian defense Ministry said
that they troops had liberated those
living there just days ago the Ukrainian
parliament passed a law making it easier
to call up new troops which are
desperately needed a general told
lawmakers ahead of the vote that
Ukrainian soldiers are outnumbered 10 to
one in places the new mobilization Law
requires all men between 18 and 60 years
old to carry documents showing they've
registered with the military and drops a
clause placing time limits on service
let's pick up on those issues with
Marina Ron who joins us from the war
studies department at King's College
London welcome what does Russia's
capture of this Village first of all
tell
you good day well what it tells us and
we have to understand where peray is
it's west of of divka so the Russians
have been pushing along the line west of
of divka around doning ber perom now
perom has fallen and it used to be a
strong hold for Ukrainian Armed Forces
there and it seems like the the Russian
forces managed to push the 59 um
motorized mechanized Brigade out of
perom meaning that the Ukrainian forces
have not been able to gain a um foothold
on the defensive line so I assume that
the slow push will be continuing
westwards and at the same time we're
seeing advances on other directions such
as robotin in zoria such as again chivar
south of bahmut so it seems like the
Russians are trying to complete the
capture of donet so they're working very
hard on the donet region but this is not
a counter offensive by Russia it is yet
to come and it seems like they're
preparing the ground for that and it is
of course very costly for the Ukrainian
Armed Forces because in peram Ukrainian
for um sources admit that it it was very
costly in terms of Manpower and none of
that sounds good for Ukraine what are
its prospects after passing this new
mobilization
law well the mobilization law still has
to be signed by President zansky
possibly
miday as expected and the problem with
the law is now that everybody will have
to um every male will have to carry
their military registration documents
with them and will have to update their
details so they will have 60 days from
when the law um is signed to update
these details and that includes those
living abroad so there is a possibility
that more people will be called up and
of course there are some penalties
expecting those who do not comply with
the law they could lose for instance
their driver's license in in some cases
and not be able to travel abroad they
will be denied um pass issuing passports
and again the question is how is Ukraine
is going to pay and uh is it able to
outfit them with kit and train them on
time in order to send them to the front
in order to stop the Russian advance and
an important part is what is not
included in the law and that is
demobilization of those who have been
fighting at the front until now some of
them have been serving for 3 years their
prospects certainly don't good either do
they no absolutely not not and general
CI understands very well that um the
Ukrainian Armed Forces those fighting at
the front need a rotation there are huge
losses for Ukraine we don't know the
exact numbers but again from the reports
and from The Vicious fights that we have
seen uh for AA for instance now chivar
and even with examples like such as cron
Peri we're seeing that the Ukrainian
armed forces are lacking troops and
lacking troops with experience so what
it means that even if the Ukrainian
Armed Forces get the Western technology
they're still having that Manpower Gap
that needs to be resolved and this
mobilization law will most likely have a
negative impact on the Ukrainian society
that seems not to have the same amount
of will it used to have in March 2022 to
to stop the Russian so that could also
make the internal political situ ation
much more complicated and create a
crisis in the Ukrainian command the
latest there on Russia's war in Ukraine
from Marina thank
you thank you for having me